What is this game?
We need to know what will make it fun, have an idea of the end.

Lets analyze some other games in the genre:
    Pennies:
        Pros:
        - You could see the physical pieces and get a feel for the world
        - You could see and react to what other players were doing
        - You can diplomize and compete over finite resources
        - Simple
        Cons:
        - Limited economics
        - Too war centric
        - Too easy to calculate

    CallOfWar:
        Pros:
        - Trading for resources
        - Diplomacy and betrayals
        - Resource management
        - Terrain based battle scores
        - Cool tech trees
        Cons:
        - Confusing and tedius economy
        - Hopeless diplomacy
        - War is the only thing

    Risk:
        Pros:
        - Super simple, home family board game
        - Simple incentive structure
        - Diplomacy
        Cons:
        - BS battle mechanics
        
What makes these games fun?
    The constant drama of alliances and betrayals
    Competitive resource management
    The uncertain future of the game
    Building, maintaining and protecting a functioning country
    The emotions:
        Fear of destruction,
        Greed
        
What ruins the fun?
    A linear game
    Confusing mechanics
    Mastery
    

How can we avoid these things?
    Linear game - Changing incentives, surprise shifts in power, a society that thinks for itself
    Confusing mechanics - A tutorial, a gradual introduction of the tech tree, a self managing economy
    Mastery - A diverse range of environments, a dynamic and reacting world, procedurally generated worlds, shuffling tech tree
    
What will be the best, most memorable and enjoyable part of the game?
    The feeling of standing on an empire you created that isn't constantly expanding or shrinking or at risk of destruction or ending because of victory.
    
    The game will create strong emotional attachment with clear identifying symbols, national identities and interactions with the user like they are a real person in that world.
    
    It will limit the rate of change of power dynamics and the effectiveness of militant tactics to create a feeling of permanence.
    
    The game will have an array of internal national obstacles and dynamics to deal with so as not to make international conflict not the only thing to do. It will use economics, trade, natural disasters, sociological conflicts like revolutions and other conflicts to take some control of the nation away from the player.
    
    To make the game interesting and give a feeling of progress, a long and complex tech tree will be used.
    
    The game is though, ultimately, not necessarily intuitive, but comprehendible. The focus is not on mastering complex systems, but rather interacting with other players. There should never be a time when someone is set behind because of a misunderstanding of a mechanic.
    
    The player will also be presented with opportunities each turn. Maybe Columbus wants to go explore the sea, a scientist would like funding for research, there are protests to close a nuclear site or a new disease has been discovered somewhere. 
    
Now that's a good goal. Now we have a target, one that quite possibly involves some sociology and economics research.
Wow.
This will take longer than I thought.
    
How early do you want to start?
Do we start with the nation-state?
A settlement?
A tribe?
Are there initial borders?

Building a nation from scratch can make it feel more real...
I don't want to start out as a developing nation; I wouldn't feel involved.

Lets start like its juts a new settlement of people, like in the Simulation.
We start with a few different buildings all in one tile.
A small, working society.
No borders, a small visible area around it.



    


        
        
        
        
        
